# KIWA_Microbiome


Title:  Repeated sampling of individuals reveals impact of tropical and temperate habitats on microbiota of a migratory bird 

Authors: Heather R. Skeen, Nathan W. Cooper, Shannon J. Hackett, John M. Bates, and Peter P. Marra

Abstract
Gut microbiota are increasingly recognized as an integral aspect of host health, and are influenced by environmental factors, host diet, and regular physiological stressors such as seasonal host movement ecologies. Migratory animals experiencing substantial change in diet and habitat across the annual cycle may have corresponding shifts in host-associated microbial diversity. Using automated telemetry and radio tags to recapture birds, we examined gut microbiota structure in the same population and often same individual of Kirtland’s Warblers (Setophaga kirtlandii) initially sampled on their wintering grounds in The Bahamas and subsequently resampled within their breeding territories in Michigan, USA.  The composition of the most abundant phyla and classes of the warblers’ microbiota is similar to that of other migratory birds. However, we detected notable variation in the abundance and diversity of numerous bacterial taxa, including a decrease in microbial richness and significant differences in microbial communities when comparing the microbiota of birds first captured in The Bahamas to that of birds recaptured in Michigan. This is observed at the individual and population level.  Furthermore, we found that 22 bacterial genera exhibit heightened abundance within specific sampling periods and are likely associated with diet and environmental change. Finally, we described a small, species-specific shared microbial profile that spans multiple time periods and environments within the migratory cycle. Our research highlights that the avian gut microbiota is dynamic over time, most significantly impacted by changing environments associated with migration. These results support the need for full annual cycle monitoring of migratory bird microbiota to improve understanding of seasonal host movement ecologies and response to recurrent physiological stressors.
